in this lesson we're going to explore
the benefits and usage of regions and
region pairs
if we go ahead and look at the actual
criteria remember the skills assessed
we're now diving into these describe
azure core services
describing the core architectural
components
and then over the next series of videos
we're actually going to dive into all of
these different aspects around regions
availability zones resource groups
subscriptions management groups and the
azure resource manager
so they're all the components that we're
going to dive into
through the next series of lessons
now i've used the term region before
and i talked about the idea that well
there's multiple data centers
that make up azure again there's no such
thing as the cloud it's just someone
else's pc
so i can think azure as a service is
comprised of lots and lots of physical
data centers
distributed
around the world and i can think there's
lots of these
now these are grouped into that concept
of a region so i can think about well
let's say for example these particular
data centers
are in a particular region
for example this might be
east u.s
now the definition of that region is a
latency envelope
so i basically think of it as the region
is defined as a two
millisecond
round trip
latency envelope
latency is the time something takes
the bits on the wire don't travel
instantly
light is fast but it's not instant
so the time it takes the further i am
between systems the longer it takes to
send out a request and get the response
back so that's the latency so a two
millisecond round trip latency window
means any data centers in the same
region can't be more than it takes for
the data to go out and come back
two millisecond is that boundary
so that means they all sit within a
certain physical distance and we can see
those regions i showed the map before so
if we jump back over and go and look at
our map
as part of the global infrastructure
here i've done the 2d version we can see
there are regions there's that kind of
east us i was talking about
there's also east u.s 2
canada central north central south
central
brazil south uk south
all over the world
we have these various regions
now i'm talking primarily about the idea
that well
there's this
single azure cloud
the reality is there's actually multiple
azure environments for the most part
we're going to engage with the
commercial just regular azure cloud
but the reality is there are actually
some separate sovereign clouds
there are certain requirements where
there needs to be both logical and
physical isolation
for for example us government they have
their own sets of data centers their own
azure ad sets of infrastructure they're
segregated
germany has a sovereign cloud china has
a sovereign cloud so while we think
about azure we are typically using the
regular commercial azure cloud but there
are also other clouds
we can see these so if we was to open up
a terminal window
this is just in this case i'm using
powershell
i can actually do a get a z environment
you don't need to know this command this
is just going to show me all of the
different azure environments that i can
see
and here we see exactly what i was
talking about there's the idea that well
there's a us government azure cloud
there's a german
azure cloud and there is a china
azure cloud then there's the regular
azure cloud that most of us will
actually be using
and they each use different endpoints
for azure resource manager to interact
with and they have their own azure aed
identities as well
now i'm connected to the regular azure
cloud and so i can see there are various
regions i can do get ac location listed
as a table
there are certain regions that are part
of that particular environment
ie azure cloud that i am connected to so
i can see all of these different
locations
are available just as part of
that regular azure cloud now you'll
notice there are things like china i'm
not seeing here
i'm not seeing the sovereign germany
clouds i see some german
locations but they're actually part of
the azure regular commercial
i'm not seeing the us government
locations either so there are these
special
environments and there are these special
regions but for the most part
we don't need to worry about that
there are the regions that we can use
as part of our regular subscription
now why do we have multiple regions and
there are actually multiple reasons i
mentioned light the speed of light
before and the further i am from
something
well the longer the bits of data take to
go out and to get a response back
so i may think about well i want to have
services close to maybe me as a company
if it's offering a service to my company
or maybe to my customers
and so the whole idea here is maybe this
is
let's say west u.s
i want to have instances of my service
in multiple regions so that hey if i
have users
if i'm a user on the east coast of the
us
hey i'll i'll use the service that's in
east us
if i have users on the west coast
well then they would use the instance on
the west coast if i had users in europe
if i'd used in australia i could deploy
services to those different regions so
they're close to whoever's consuming it
they get a great experience yes
someone on the west coast could
access a service on the east coast or
one in europe but that distance means
they'll get a high latency and therefore
not a great performance
so by having all of these regions in
azure
i as the provider can choose to put my
services that make the most sense so
they can get a great experience
now there may also be regulatory reasons
i may be in a certain industry that
requires maybe the data
to stay within a certain geography
well by having all of these regions
throughout the world if i'm operating in
europe for example
i can make sure i only deploy my
services to regions in europe so i can
meet any data sovereignty requirements
that's why there's a special german
cloud for example a special china cloud
because they have some very strict data
sovereignty requirements so i can
actually completely separate those away
so by having all of these regions
i as a customer of azure can pick which
regions i deploy to to me any data
sovereignty or regulatory requirements
there may be
additionally i can think well yes
there's different data centers but
because that latency window they're all
within a certain distance there could be
some natural disaster
now microsoft are very careful about
where it picks to put data centers they
consider
fault lines they consider flood plains
all of these different aspects but
natural disasters could still happen
so i will want to deploy to multiple
regions
to
support for example a natural disaster
i would pick regions
that are hundreds
of miles apart
so now what i could have is i could have
my service running
and then maybe for disaster recovery if
this something happens i could fail over
or maybe i can have it running in both
of them and balance between them but i
deployed to multiple regions to give me
resiliency if there is some regional
level failure
so those are some of the key reasons we
use multiple
regions i want to be close to my
customers they get a great experience
they might be regulatory
reasons
and also for resiliency purposes so we
can really think about hey
there's performance
there might be regulatory
and i can also think about dr
resiliency so i'd pick multiple regions
to impact
now that last point about dr and
resiliency is actually super important
you never want to just deploy to one
region
and when i
use a certain service i may get the
choice if i'm using for example a
managed database offering i can pick hey
i want an asynchronous read replica in
that region or that region or multiple
regions
but for some services there's just a
built-in replication to another region
and regions are actually paired so
microsoft on its own set of services
has a built-in pairing that i cannot
change
and some services use that for example
azure storage
if i do the geo-redundant data it's
replicating to the paired region azure
key vault replicates to the paired
region and we can see those pairings so
if we jump over for a second
microsoft has all of this documented in
the azure cross region replication
pairings document here
and i can see the regional pairings
and the key point you're going to notice
about these
is with the exception of brazil south so
this is the one exception right here
brazil south replicates the south
central us that's because at the time
brazil only had one region so it had to
replicate to the next closest which was
south central us
for all of the other pairs
the pairings are always in the same
geopolitical boundary so i'm not
replicating outside of any particular
political or data sovereignty area so
it's keeping that within there china
replicates to china europe to europe
france to france germany to germany etc
etc they're all paired
in the same geopolitical boundary
additionally
they're also paired in such a way that
they are
hundreds of miles apart that's a key
point i don't want to use regions that
are super close to each other for
example i wouldn't want to be using east
us and east us too
for my disaster recovery because they're
fairly close there was some kind of
natural disaster or could it impact both
regions so these pairings yes they're in
the same
regulatory boundaries but ideally
they're hundreds of miles apart to help
give us that protection so that's a key
point
of all of these we want that resiliency
from them
additionally
azure actually uses those pairings for a
couple of other purposes
if we think about well
if there is a large-scale outage
let's pretend for example east u.s and
west u.s are paired
they're not exactly but let's say those
are when it's trying to bring services
back up it will make sure when it's
doing that bringing back of service it
will prioritize a particular region from
the pairings to try and get one of them
back up as quick as possible to get
things serviced as fast as they can
additionally when it's rolling out
updates to its fabric
it won't roll out updates at the same
time to the regional pairs that's to
avoid the chance that hey they're
introducing a problem as part of an
update they want to introduce the
problem to the primary and kind of the
dr region so it will stagger them it
will deploy it to one of the pairs and
then once it's successful then it would
go in ahead and deploy it to the other
pair as well
so regional pairings hey they're
critical as part of our resiliency but
azure also uses them as part of its
resiliency and helps protect you as part
of those kind of staged updates as well